you just recently switched over to
Windows 11 but somehow it feels super
laggy and clunky this might be due to
the fact that you have too many
processes running in the background
since you really need to deblo Windows
11 which means remove all of the
unnecessary tools which are
pre-installed but I'm not only going to
show you that but also additional steps
in order to optimize your whole entire
Windows 11 PC for gaming this is going
to give you a huge advantage in
basically any game and I'm going to
explain exactly how to do it and what it
does please don't forget to leave a like
And subscribe guys this is the best way
to support the channel and now let's go
so guys and now we have Windows 11
running on this PC there is a brand new
version and I just want to show you
what's all wrong with this kind of you
can see first of all guys under CPU that
we have 143 processors which is actually
really bad so therefore I'm going to
show you how we can reduce this by a ton
additionally I'm also going to show you
how to optimize your CPU and some
additional GPU tweaks in order to make
basically any game Run so much better on
Windows 11 basically our Windows 11 is
still super bloated so therefore what
we're going to do is open up our browser
and just installed a Google Chrome on
this one since I like it actually then
we're going to search up first of all
the Chris Titus Tech utility just simply
search it up here in Google then you're
going to find the first link and that in
here now guys we have the commment in
order to launch it just simply copy this
one then you can close your browser type
in that powers shell until we can find
Windows poell right click onto it and
run it as administrator and just simply
click under yes and now we have this CMD
common prompt window you open and we're
going to paste it in there and press
enter now the tool is going to launch in
the background it's going to take a
little bit because it maybe needs to
download something but once we have it
the tool should exactly look like this
you guys first of all on install guys we
have a pretty handy list with basically
all of the tools which you could want
for your Windows PC I'm not going to
touch this as of right now since we're
trying to optimize it fully for gaming
but we're going to move over to tweaks
in here now we have recommended
selections desktop laptop minimal clear
and get installed what we want to click
on is of course desktop for our PC guys
if you're on a laptop you're going to
select that one and if you only want to
apply minimal tweaks which I would not
recommend you since desktop is super
safe and you can straight up disable all
of these and you can straight up disable
all of these you could particularly also
do it you can see it's going to be a way
less we have only something like run o
and O shut up which is basically
disabling a lot of privacy Services then
we also have something like disabled
telary which is just simply Microsoft
collecting data of your PC and what this
is actually now going to do is reduce
the amount of processes by a ton guys
and since we want the best outcome and
best performance we are actually going
to click on the desktop we can also of
course create a restart point if you
want to run a disc clean up which is not
really necessarily since it's a brand
new version of Windows but what we
definitely also want to do is remove
Microsoft ad
and remove one drive once we're done
with this here and we selected
everything we could also now
theoretically add the alterative
performance profile which I'm not going
to use as of right now since I'm going
to use a different custom one which I'm
going to show you in a second but now
first of all click on run tweaks here
and then you can see the following CMD
window now basically in the background
removing everything you can see all of
these Services which have been
successfully uninstalled which are
actually a ton once we scroll through
this you guys like you can see the list
goes on and on and once we now done with
this we can close the tool and now all
we got to do is actually reset our PC
here real quick and now we can actually
check our tesman JW I'm going to be
surprised if it is still over 80 it
should definitely be pretty low okay
it's 83 83 okay we got to admit I have a
little bit of stuff here running on
there still have a USB and everything in
there but yeah around 82 processes this
is so much better already than what we
had before 143 144 something like that
so we already got a ton less guys this
is insane what we can also see from the
Chris Titus Tech utility guys is that
actually all of the Windows updates have
been full disabled and here you got to
pay a little bit attention guys because
every time you update your windows some
of these Services might get turned on
again so what you basically have to do
is run the tool one more time whenever
you did the Windows update and then you
should be good to go afterwards as well
but let's actually continue now guys
with the CPU tweak what we need is a
tool called process lasso just simply
Google it up and then you should find
the first link from bitsum and it's by
the way a free to use tool so therefore
you don't have to pay anything just
simply get it straight up from the
website so just simp click here under
yes then we're going to go on the okay
and close the browser is already in the
background agree uh yeah launch process
L of course click on the next install
now we're just going to wait a little
bit and this is the tool already guys so
what we're going to do in the first
place guys is actually enable our custom
profile so what we then do is go on the
Main and then we can see active power
profile and we want to select bits some
highest performance one this one is the
best for any PC except if you have
overheating issues then maybe go with
something else like high performance or
balance but for most of you guys even on
pretty mid-range PCS this is still going
to be really good so therefore enable
this one then we're going to go down
here go under prob balance this one
should be enabled 100% and performance
mode should also say enabled then we're
going to move over to options then we
can see General in here now manage
processes of all users should be checked
but then we're also going to go down
here to refresh go interval and this one
we're going to set to 5 Seconds we're
going to do exactly the same thing for
refresh interval Governor this one we're
also going to put to 5 Seconds as well
then next up under power guys and
performance mode you're going to make
sure that all three of these here are
actually checked and now comes the most
tricky part I at the moment don't really
have a game here installed on this
Windows PC so I'm just going to give you
an example with another exra but
whenever you find basically whatever
game you want to boost let's say Counter
Strike 2 fortnite valerant whatever you
just simply have to find the X in here
and what you then only have to do is
basically right click onto it go into
CPU priority go under always and put it
to high then we're going to go under I
and O priority go as well under always
and this one you're also going to put to
high and finally guys for the power
profile you want to make sure that you
actually load up the bits some highest
performance one this is what you're
going to always do for any game which
you want to play on your PC always find
it in process lesser and when I actually
close the T now guys it's not going to
get closed completely but actually get
put here into my minimize tray this is
important the tool has to run in the
background but once you know you
actually go on power plan we can see
that the bitsum highest performance one
should be selected and this one is fully
optimized as we did it and those are the
best settings for any CPU real quick
guys if you're someone who plays a ton
of online games like Counter Strike
fortnite rust whatsoever I would highly
recommend you to check out the G booster
you can actually use this to tool for
absolutely free guys since I have a
collaboration with them huge huge shout
out to jir and with the link in my
description you can actually use this
tool for absolutely free you can select
as mentioned whatever games you guys
want to play you can automatically
select the best DNS server in your near
and the tool is going to automatically
for the least amount of pain it's really
cool since you just simply have to let
it run in the background and even while
gaming it's going to consistently look
for the best possible server ensuring
that you guys have the least amount of
ping as mentioned if you want to try it
out for absolutely free the link to it
is going to be in the description they
also have a console varant so therefore
check it out if you're maybe even on
Console next up guys we want to utilize
a tool which is going to be called MSI
mode utility V3 and that one is amazing
and it's going to do a huge difference
in terms of input delay whenever you're
playing your favorite games like you're
going to immediately notice this what
you want to do is search this up on
Google it's kind of tricky to find this
there's like always here the first
Reddit post on which you can actually
get it then just simply open this up
here scroll down a little bit and there
should be somewhere here the link yeah
for the MSI utility from here you can
get it I can also put it in the video
description but once you have to file
this is exactly how it should look like
then we're just simply going to drag it
here onto our desktop super important
guys you have to right click and launch
it as an administrator so therefore run
with Administration rights click under
yes here real quick and this is not
exactly how it should look like guys and
what we want to find in here now is a
current GPU for me it's Nvidia atic 4060
and basically any GPU from like the last
10 12 15 years should actually support
this a supported mode called MSI and
this has nothing to do with the brand
actually itself MSI mode is basically a
second variant mode for communication
between your CPU and GPU and this one is
a lot faster resulting in way lower
latency when it comes down to games so
therefore what you want to do is
actually make sure to check this one
here and now a lot of people say for the
interrup priority that you should
actually put this on the high but I
realized for myself guys and there's
also a lot of data backing this up that
you should actually rather put it on
normal guys this is exactly what I'm
going to do and then I'm going to apply
it here real quick and then we already
good to go this one you don't have to
run in the background whatsoever you can
can straight up actually delete it
afterwards and you're good to go and
next up guys we're going to be utilizing
a tool called islc which is going to
help out our memory so guys I'm at the
moment on different PC now but it should
be exactly the same way so we're going
to open up islc and basically run the
tool here first of all with the ex which
is delivered in the package and once the
tool is running guys you can see your
total system memory standby list and
system working set and free memory and
especially the bottom one is the most
important one because the less free
memory you have the chunkier your system
is all going to feel you know
applications are going to need longer to
load up you maybe open up some files
it's going to take super long opening up
Google Chrome and all of that basically
this one here you want to keep as high
as possible and you can see from my
total system memory 16 gigs here are
already being used for whatever like I
have adob Premier Pro opened you know I
opened up Google Chrome streamlabs and
all of that and if I click now here
under PCH standby list you can see that
my standby list is going to get
completely clean and I have now again
here this free memory but over the time
when you use your PC and you open up you
know games applications and all of that
your standby list is going to again go
all the way up you know until your free
memory is completely at the lowest so
this is exactly where the islc or
intelligence sent by list cleaner comes
in clutch guys the list size is at least
this one you're going to leave on the
default value 1,24 and now for free
memory is lower than you're going to
take half of your RAM so for me right
now it's 64 gigs of RAM so I'm going to
put in there roughly 32,000 and I should
be good to go if you're on 32 gigs of
RAM you're going to put it to 16,000 on
16 gigs of RAM to 8,000 you guys get the
point basically always half of your RAM
then here on the right side what you
want to do is actually go on the timer
resolution and put this to
0.50 they just simp going to change this
here guys leave it like this it should
just say 0.50 then we're going to enable
custom timer resolution make sure to put
our islc pulling rate on 1,000 this is
going to be the best value for most PCS
make sure to enable it on launch start
you know like this Auto minimize start
and then we're going to click under
Start then as well here on the left side
guys you can see start islc minimized
we're going to check that and launch SLC
on user log on so it's basically always
running in the background making sure
that our free memory is actually not
going to go under this value then we
just simply going to click under Start
and minimize it and we already good to
go